In this brief lesson, we're going to talk
about yet, another Python data structure,
the dictionary.
A dictionary is exactly what you think of.
It's a way to look up, a value based on a
key.
Just like Webster's Dictionary or any
other dictionary.
We're going to use the interactive shell
again, to demonstrate how dictionaries are
created.
So let's open the shell first of all.
This first example will demonstrate how to
create an empty dictionary, and we
do that by writing an open curly brace
followed by a closing curly brace.
That creates an empty dictionary.
But of course, that's not of much use.
So let's see how to create, a dictionary
that actually has data in it.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna create
a little simple phone extension list.
We'll call it phone list.
And it's going to have an employee's name
followed by their extension.
So we open the dictionary with an open
curly brace.
We type the first key followed by a colon,
and then a value and then a
comma, then another key, colon, another
value, and
we'll do one more key and one more value,
like so.
And that's all there is to it.
If I want to retrieve a value I just write
a key as an index.
So, if I type in phone list Jane, it
returns
233, and that's as simple as a Python
dictionary is.
One thing I will show you before we leave
this subject, is you can
get a list of all the keys and all the
values of a dictionary.
By using the keys function which returns
the keys,
and the values function which returns all
the values.
There's a lot more we can talk about the
dictionaries, but we'll save that for
later in the course when we'll learn
a little bit more about Python programming
constructs.
So we'll leave dictionaries for now, we'll
move to the
last data structure for the chapter and
that's the duple.